---

## Build 7
### Journal update: Compiling mysql libraries

Work has continued on this project over the last couple of days, but I've been stuck trying to figure how to compile any of the available mysql libraries on macos. I initially tried mysqlapi++, but I was ultimately never able to get any of the examples I could find to compile. What is also difficult is that I do not have the best understanding of the compiler tools I am using, or how C wants to link things, at this point, which makes it hard to tell differentiate user errors from actual library compatibility problems, especially when encountering older documentation or libraries. Also, a lot of the community resouces I can find online pertain to specific IDEs, usually Visual Studio, from which I can gain very little of use. I am experimenting somewhat with switching to an IDE but am still very reluctant to do so.

I was eventually able to compile what I think will be a servicable build of the mysqlcppconn library by copying the filed from the official tarball into the project and exporting a `DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH` variable to link the dynamic libraries provided in the tarball. I think how this should work is that I should be able to install with brew and have the compiler tools automatically find the libraries in path and work with them. Unfortunately, no matter what I try, I can't seem to make this happen. I don't seem to be able to get the compiler tools to recognize path changes without also changing sysroot which then seems to bring other problems, even when I'm setting it to what I think it's currently using. When I can get the compiler to actually point to the libraries installed by brew, the compiler still seems to ignore them, and I probably don't have the experience yet to catch what I am doing wrong. I think there is some combination of quirks between brew / Apple clang / my inexperience at the heart of the problem, so for right now I'm going to keep learning with the solution I have managed to put together, and hope to import these libraries in a better way later.

This bulid is simply to put this update out, as it was never my intention to go multiple days in between commits, although I am hesitant to commit without a working addition. In cases like this, I will try to put out an update containing at least a new build journal, so it is clear the projec thas not gone dark.
